---
title: Synchronizing v. Deriving State
date: "2022-05-27"
---

I recently stumbled upon Kent C. Dodds's [Office Hours](https://youtu.be/uNKWIWgbx9s) series on YouTube, in which he tackled a question about how to manage altered state in a React component, which state you derive from some other state.

In his answer to the question, Dodds talked about the difference between deriving and synchronizing state, and my mind was blown. I, like many React developers, quickly reach for _useState_ when I need to, you know, manage some state.

But as it turns out, by reflexively creating more state when I could be _deriving_ that state from some other state, I'm making my life harder than it needs to be.

Here's what I mean.

Say you have a form component like so:

```typescript jsx
const ContactForm = () => {
  const [formState, setFormState] = useState<FormType>({name: '', email: '', message: ''});
  const handleChange = (e: any) => {
    // Create your new state in, say, a variable named newState, and then...
    setFormState(newState);
  }
  return (
    // The form's JSX
  )
}
```
Simple, right? But what if you want to keep track of errors, both to alert your user that they've done something wrong, and to prevent unhelpful form submissions.
A natural solution might be to add more state:
```typescript jsx
const ContactForm = () => {
  const [formState, setFormState] = useState<FormType>({name: '', email: '', message: ''});
  const [errorState, setErrorState] = useState<ErrorType>({nameError: false, emailError: false});
  ...
}
```
Simple enough, except you've now created some unneeded complexity. By maintaining two sets of state, one for the form itself and one for the errors, you, the programmer, must **synchronize** the two states, which usually means (hopefully) remembering to call _setErrorState_ each time you call _setFormState_.

Now, in this simple example, juggling two relatively simple states isn't too hard. But React apps get complicated, and there's an easier way. Don't synchronize the two states yourself, **derive** one state from the other. To illustrate:

```typescript jsx
const ContactForm = () => {
  const [formState, setFormState] = useState<FormType>({name: '', email: '', message: ''});
  const errorState = calculateErrors(formState);
  
  const calculateErrors = (form: FormType) => {
    // Return errors
  }
  ...
}
```
You're still having to calculate your error state from your form state. The difference is that you're not having to manually do so every time you call _setFormState_ in your component. The error calculation happens automatically every time the component rerenders. And of course, if you're worried about performance, you can always wrap the _calculateErrors_ function in a _useMemo_ hook.

So much simpler and, therefore, so much  to maintain! 