---
title: Adding/Subtracting Properties from an Object Type in TypeScript
date: "2022-05-31"
---

As someone who works a lot with TypeScript (it's great!), I often find myself wanting to use a type...but not quite. I want to add or subtract one (or a few) properties without duplicating a bunch of code.

Turns out, with a few keywords, you can avoid a bunch of duplicate code.

Say you have a User object that comes more-or-less straight from your database, like so:

```tsx
interface User {
    name: string;
    email: string;
    password: string;
    role: number;
}
```
If you return this object to your front-end, for security reasons, you probably don't want to include the password. You could of course rewrite the entire interface:
```tsx
interface UserNoPassword {
    name: string;
    email: string;
    role: number;
}
```
But in doing so, you're not exactly following the DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) principle. And as a result, if User changes in the future, you have to remember to update both User and UserNoPassword. Not fun.

So instead, you can use a TypeScript utility called **Omit**:

```tsx
interface User {
    name: string;
    email: string;
    password: string;
    role: number;
}
type UserNoPassword = Omit<User, 'password'>;
```
Here, UserNoPassword is User, minus the password. You can even remove multiple fields like so:
```tsx
type UserNoPasswordNoName = Omit<User, 'password' | 'name'>;
```
So that's how you omit fields from an object type. What about adding fields? Use the **extends** keyword, like as follows:

```tsx
interface UserWithNickname extends User {
    nickname: string;
}
```

By using the extends keyword, you create a new interface, UserWithNickname, with all the properties of User, plus whatever is included in between the curly braces (here, nickname, a string).

And there you have it. An easy way to make your TypeScript types and interfaces just a little more maintainable.