---
title: User Secrets in Visual Studio
date: "2022-09-01"
---

I started working as a developer in Node-based ecosystems. So in development, secrets, like database passwords, API keys, etc., hung out in .env files in project folders, safe from source control via the power of .gitignore files (and by the way, secrets like passwords, API keys, etc., should **never** hang out in source control).

When migrating to the .NET ecosystem, one of the most confusing transition was working with my “.env” equivalent. But as it turns out, Visual Studio (and if you’re developing in .NET, you’re probably using Visual Studio — although I’ve heard great things about Rider, FWIW) makes managing secrets easy — and in my opinion, easier than using a .env file nested in project folders, because the secrets live outside your project structure, minimizing the risk that you accidentally check them into source control.

Want to access your user secrets in Visual Studio? Right click on the Project for which you want to manage secrets, and then click Manage User Secrets. You’ll see a “secrets.json” file, where you can add, as key/value pairs, whatever user secrets you might need:

```json
{
	"mySecretKey": "keepthisoutofyoursourcecode!"
}
```

Want to access your secrets in C# code? In .NET Core 3.1, your user secrets (in development, of course — you’ll need to use something else for your secrets in production apps) are available on the IConfiguration object piped into the Startup method in Startup.cs. You can access them like so:

```csharp
public Startup(IConfiguration configuration, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
	Configuration = configuration;
	var mySecret = Configuration["mySecretKey"];
}
```

Easy! And secret!