---
title: Virtualize!
date: "2022-09-03"
---

Dealing with a ton of records in a web frontend can be hard. Even in modern frameworks like Blazor or React, you quickly run into performance problems when rendering more than a few dozen components in a list of records. You could use a paginated table (no thanks), or you could write a bunch of code to load records from your backend on demand and then render them as the user scrolls through a list (but I thought programmers were supposed to be lazy!), or you could throw your hands up and add yet another npm/NuGet package ([so…many…dependencies](https://npm.anvaka.com/#/)).

Enter Virtualize. Starting with .NET 5, Blazor (both Server and WebAssembly) ships with the Virtualize component, which is hands down the coolest thing I’ve seen this year. With Virtualize, you get a component that, [per Microsoft](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/virtualization?view=aspnetcore-6.0),

- Calculates the number of items to render based on the height of the container and the size of the rendered items.
- Recalculates and rerenders the items as the user scrolls.
- Only fetches the slice of records from an external API that correspond to the current visible region, instead of downloading all of the data from the collection.

And I’m happy to say that, based on my experience, Virtualize is fast.

The best part? This is the entirety of the code you’ll need to write to get all of the above functionality:

```csharp
<div style="height:500px;overflow-y:scroll">
    <Virtualize Items="@allFlights">
        <FlightSummary @key="context.FlightId" Details="@context.Summary" />
    </Virtualize>
</div>
```

So. Cool.

The next time you find yourself wrestling with lots of records in Blazor, try Virtualize.