---
title: Requiring Component Parameters in Blazor
date: '2023-02-09'
---

.NET Blazor is a component-based architecture. You write a bunch of individual, reusable “components” (like in React), and you pass application state between those components by way of parameters (again, like in React). Simple enough, except that the C# compiler (at least as of .NET 6, the latest .NET long-term-support version) won’t warn you if you fail to provide a parameter that the component requires. And that can be a problem, especially if you don’t have [nullable reference types](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/nullable-references) turned on for your project.

Say you have a Razor component that displays a date as a [short date string](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.datetime.toshortdatestring?view=net-7.0), like so:

```csharp
<h1>
	@TheDate.ToShortDateString()
</h1>

@code
{
	[Parameter]
	public DateTime TheDate { get; set; }
}
```

If the page or component that uses your component (let’s call it DateDisplay.razor) supplies the TheDate parameter, all is well:

```csharp
<DateDisplay TheDate="@ADate" />
```

The short date string of the ADate DateTime object, passed to the DateDisplay component as TheDate, will display as intended. But what if the parent component forgets to include TheDate? The following is legal code that will compile without warnings:

```csharp
<DateDisplay />
```

And yet, at runtime, you’ll get a null reference exception (boo!) when the DateDisplay tries to call the ToShortDateString method on TheDate, which will happen to be null. You could prevent this specific problem by enabling nullable reference types and declaring TheDate as a nullable DateTime. But is there a general way to tell users of your DateDisplay component that they need to provide TheDate?

Yes! Just use the EditorRequired attribute on your parameter, like this:

```csharp
<h1>
	@TheDate.ToShortDateString()
</h1>

@code
{
	[Parameter, EditorRequired]
	public DateTime TheDate { get; set; }
}
```

Now, if someone tries to use the DateDisplay component without supplying TheDate, the compiler will generate a helpful warning. Easy!
